---
title: "12. Body of an IEEE draft standard"
---

# Body of an IEEE draft standard

## Normative and informative clauses

[IEEE standard document structure (6.4)](http://standards.ieee.org/develop/policies/opman/sect6.html) of the *IEEE SA Standards Board Operations Manual* defines which parts of a standard are normative and which parts of a standard are informative.

Normative text is information that is required to implement the standard and is therefore necessary to determine conformance with the standard. Informative text is provided for information only and is therefore not necessary to determine conformance with the standard. Both normative and informative text are provided for review and commenting during the IEEE Standards Association ballot.

Normative text (information *required* to implement the standard) includes the following:

 * The main clauses of the documents including figures, tables, and equations

 * Footnotes to tables

 * Footnotes to figures

 * Annexes marked “(normative)”

Informative text (text provided for information only) includes the following:

 * Frontmatter

 * Notes to text, tables, and figures

   At the first instance of a note associated with text, a table, or a figure, the following footnote should appear:

   Notes to text, tables, and figures are for information only and do not contain requirements needed to implement the standard.

 * Annexes marked “(informative),” e.g., Bibliography

__*Interspersed normative and informative text is not allowed*__. As such, neither clauses nor subclauses shall be labeled as informative. Contact IEEE SA content publishing staff early in the process if there are questions as to whether material in the draft should be labeled as normative or informative.

## Order of clauses

### General

The first clause of a standard, [Clause 1](01.md), shall always be an overview (except for amendments and corrigenda, which _do not_ usually have an overview, scope, or purpose). If the standard contains normative references and definitions, they shall be [Clause 2](02.md) and [Clause 3](03.md), respectively. The clauses that follow [Clause 3](03.md) can be ordered in any way by the working group. If clause and subclause titles begin with numbers, they should be spelled out, unless unavoidable (e.g., 10BASE-T).

### The overview of the draft

The overview includes the scope of the standard that shall be within the scope of that given on the PAR. The overview shall also include a subclause for word usage (see [12.2.5](). Therefore, at a minimum, the overview will contain two subclauses—one for the scope and the other for word usage. The overview may include optional topics such as a purpose, applications, and other areas that the working group considers relevant. These optional topics should be presented as separate subclauses of the overview; they should not be lumped in with the scope or word usage.

The overview shall not contain detailed discussions of the general technical content of the standard nor shall it list the contents of the standard (since this is the purpose of the table of contents).

### Scope

The scope of the standard shall explain in statements of fact what is covered in the standard and, if necessary, what is not covered in the standard—in other words, the technical boundaries of the document. The scope should be succinct so that it can be abstracted for bibliographic purposes.

For new and revision projects, the scope of the draft shall be within the scope of that given on the PAR, as determined by the balloting group voting on the draft.

For amendments and corrigenda, there is normally no scope in the draft. Therefore, on the PAR, the scope shall state what the amendment/corrigendum is changing.

For standards projects that incorporate Open Source, the fact that the standard incorporates Open Source and the location of that Open Source, via the URL or hyperlink, should be included in the Scope

Regardless of project type, the scope of the draft has to be within the scope of the project given on the PAR form.

Please note the distinction of the scope from the purpose of the standard discussed in [12.2.4]().

### Purpose

A paragraph describing the purpose of the standard is not mandatory in the draft. However, if included, the purpose of the standard and its intended application shall be included in a separate subclause (1.2). The purpose shall explain why the standards project is needed.

For new and revision projects, the purpose (if included) of the draft shall be within the parameters of the purpose given on the PAR, as determined by the balloting group voting on the draft.

For amendments and corrigenda, there is normally no purpose in the draft standard. Therefore, on the PAR form, the purpose shall state why the changes are being made.

Please note the distinction of the purpose from the scope of the standard discussed in [12.2.3]().

### Word usage

Include the definitions of “*shall*,” “*should*,” and “*may*” within a draft standard. The subclause appears in Clause 1 Overview of the draft. See [12.2.2]() and the example of a draft standard in [Annex B]() for more information.